In order to study the concepts of Theory of Mind, a study was conducted using the food truck experiment. The scenarios and samples were based on the paper POR PAPER. This study will allow to better understand the human capacity for reasoning about an agent thought process and processing of mental states such as beliefs and desires.

The participants in the survey were shown different sequences of the agent’s movements in simple scenarios for the Food Truck problem. The different environments have been defined with the purpose of evaluating different types of behavior. In the first scenarios, the agent either selects the first truck it sees or the second one immediately after. These two scenarios shouldn’t allow for any inferences on the true preference of the agent, however, this isn’t usually coherent with the results. Afterwards, the tester is also prompted with scenarios in which it can establish an order of preference correctly, based on its choices. In the end, different iterations of similar scenarios are also shown, and for the same set of decisions, with different path lengths, it is tested whether this has an effect on the choices.

The experimental results went according to the expected. The values attributed to each option in our study were a bit more extreme than the two samples in the work. In general, people would usually go for the higher and lower values, like 1 and 7.  Besides this, in our study, people tended to vote similarly to the other samples, including the scenarios where no inferences could be made and identical values were attributed to the options. The similar scenarios with different path lengths ended up displaying the same pattern, but differing a bit in the values depending on the size. The fact that the votes ranged from 1 to 7, helped in showing the different voting choices. The people who did this test on the paper also showed the same behavior in this option.  The shorter path had lower votes than the most complex one. Generally, when voting for the beliefs, the results were more aligned with the previous samples than the desires. There was a common confusion on understanding the differences and correlation between the beliefs and desires.

In summary, the study uncovered distinct patterns when participants were tasked with voting for beliefs versus desires, while still maintaining a fair degree of correlation with the model and people from the previous work. The results were helpful in underlining a pattern in these Theory of Mind concepts, and the functioning of the mental state process in decision-making scenarios.
